_pages/categories/mathmatics/micro-economics.md, before:

---
title: "Micro-economics"
permalink: /categories/micro-economics
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---

졸업을 위해 마지막 학기에 "미시경제학" 수업을 듣게 되었습니다.
경제학원론 수업을 재밌게 들어서 경제 쪽이랑 궁합이 좋은 줄 알고 신청 했는데, 웬걸... 이 과목은 사실상 수학과 과목 이었습니다.. ㅋㅋ
그래도 어영부영 수학과 복수전공을 하고 있으니, 이 수업도 힘내서 잘 들어봅시다!

# Textbook

> [Models in Microeconomic Theory, Martin J. Osborne,Ariel Rubinstein](https://www.openbookpublishers.com/books/10.11647/obp.0361)

참고로 Openbook Publisher에 등록 되어 있어, "무료"로 사용하실 수 있습니다.


# Chapters

- Preference and Utility
  - [Introduction](/2025/03/05/preferences/)
  - [Utility Functions](/2025/03/10/utility-functions/)
- Choice
  - [Choice Functions](/2025/03/12/choice-functions/)
  - [Property $\alpha$](/2025/03/17/property-alpha/)
- Preference under Uncertainty
  - [Lotteries & Lottery Preference](/2025/03/19/lotteries/)
  - [Expected Utility](/2025/04/10/expected-utility/)
- Consumer's Preferences
  - [Bundles & Bundle Preference](/2025/04/12/bundles-of-goods/)
  - [Monotonicity](/2025/04/13/bundle-preference-monotonicity/)
  - [Continuity](/2025/04/14/bundle-preference-continuity/)
  - [Convexity](/2025/04/14/bundle-preference-convexity/)
  - [Differentiability](/2025/04/14/bundle-preference-differentiability/)
- Consumer's Problem
  - [Demand Function](/2025/04/21/demand-function/)
  - [Consumer's Problem](/2025/04/22/consumer-problem/)
  - [Internal·Boundary Solution](/2025/05/10/internal-and-boundary-solution/)
  - [Rationalizable Demand Function](/2025/05/10/rationalizable-demand-function/)
  - [Kind of Goods](/2025/05/11/kind-of-goods/)
    - Derived Functions
      - Regular Demand Function
      - Cross Demand Function
      - Engel Function
    - Normal Goods
    - Regular Goods
    - Inferior Goods
    - Giffen Goods
  - [Weak Axiom of Revealed Preference](/2025/05/11/weak-axiom-of-revealed-preferences/)
  - [Slutsky Property](/2025/05/12/slutsky-property/)

<hr/>

<div style="text-align: center">

중간고사

</div>

<hr/>

- Producer's Behavior
  - [Production Function](/2025/05/13/production-function/)
  - [Cost Function](/2025/05/14/cost-function/)
- Exchange Economy
  - [Introduction](/2025/05/14/exchange-economy/)
  - [Competitive Equilibrium](/2025/05/15/competitive-equilibrium/)
    - Walras's Law
  - [Pareto Stability](/2025/05/15/pareto-stability/)
    - Edgeworth Box
    - Contract Curve & Core
  - [Fundamental Theorem of Welfare Economics](/2025/05/17/fundamental-theorem-of-welfare-economics/)
- Variants of Exchange Economy
  - [Indivisible Goods and Money](/2025/05/18/indivisible-goods-and-money/)
- Market

# Thoughts

어떻게 보면 응용 수학의 한 갈레를 이 수업을 통해 맛보게 된 것 같습니다.

# Reference

> [미시경제학, 서울시립대 2020-가을, 지창구](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhsqVA2TJf4eJ9dcClZ80Ihgh0mCe6Ewv)

학교 수업과 교재도 다르고, 순서도 다르지만 미시경제학을 여러 방면에서 이해하고 다시 보는데 많은 도움이 되었습니다!

Commit message:

post: competitive equilb of discrete exchange econ

_pages/categories/mathmatics/micro-economics.md, after:

---
title: "Micro-economics"
permalink: /categories/micro-economics
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---

졸업을 위해 마지막 학기에 "미시경제학" 수업을 듣게 되었습니다.
경제학원론 수업을 재밌게 들어서 경제 쪽이랑 궁합이 좋은 줄 알고 신청 했는데, 웬걸... 이 과목은 사실상 수학과 과목 이었습니다.. ㅋㅋ
그래도 어영부영 수학과 복수전공을 하고 있으니, 이 수업도 힘내서 잘 들어봅시다!

# Textbook

> [Models in Microeconomic Theory, Martin J. Osborne,Ariel Rubinstein](https://www.openbookpublishers.com/books/10.11647/obp.0361)

참고로 Openbook Publisher에 등록 되어 있어, "무료"로 사용하실 수 있습니다.


# Chapters

- Preference and Utility
  - [Introduction](/2025/03/05/preferences/)
  - [Utility Functions](/2025/03/10/utility-functions/)
- Choice
  - [Choice Functions](/2025/03/12/choice-functions/)
  - [Property $\alpha$](/2025/03/17/property-alpha/)
- Preference under Uncertainty
  - [Lotteries & Lottery Preference](/2025/03/19/lotteries/)
  - [Expected Utility](/2025/04/10/expected-utility/)
- Consumer's Preferences
  - [Bundles & Bundle Preference](/2025/04/12/bundles-of-goods/)
  - [Monotonicity](/2025/04/13/bundle-preference-monotonicity/)
  - [Continuity](/2025/04/14/bundle-preference-continuity/)
  - [Convexity](/2025/04/14/bundle-preference-convexity/)
  - [Differentiability](/2025/04/14/bundle-preference-differentiability/)
- Consumer's Problem
  - [Demand Function](/2025/04/21/demand-function/)
  - [Consumer's Problem](/2025/04/22/consumer-problem/)
  - [Internal·Boundary Solution](/2025/05/10/internal-and-boundary-solution/)
  - [Rationalizable Demand Function](/2025/05/10/rationalizable-demand-function/)
  - [Kind of Goods](/2025/05/11/kind-of-goods/)
    - Derived Functions
      - Regular Demand Function
      - Cross Demand Function
      - Engel Function
    - Normal Goods
    - Regular Goods
    - Inferior Goods
    - Giffen Goods
  - [Weak Axiom of Revealed Preference](/2025/05/11/weak-axiom-of-revealed-preferences/)
  - [Slutsky Property](/2025/05/12/slutsky-property/)

<hr/>

<div style="text-align: center">

중간고사

</div>

<hr/>

- Producer's Behavior
  - [Production Function](/2025/05/13/production-function/)
  - [Cost Function](/2025/05/14/cost-function/)
- Exchange Economy
  - [Introduction](/2025/05/14/exchange-economy/)
  - [Competitive Equilibrium](/2025/05/15/competitive-equilibrium/)
    - Walras's Law
  - [Pareto Stability](/2025/05/15/pareto-stability/)
    - Edgeworth Box
    - Contract Curve & Core
  - [Fundamental Theorem of Welfare Economics](/2025/05/17/fundamental-theorem-of-welfare-economics/)
- Variants of Exchange Economy
  - [Indivisible Goods and Money](/2025/05/18/indivisible-goods-and-money/)
  - [Competitive Equilibrium of Indivisible Exchange Economy](/2025/05/19/competitive-equilibrium-of-indivisible-exchange-economy/)
  - Exchange Economy with Uncertainty
- Market

# Thoughts

어떻게 보면 응용 수학의 한 갈레를 이 수업을 통해 맛보게 된 것 같습니다.

# Reference

> [미시경제학, 서울시립대 2020-가을, 지창구](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhsqVA2TJf4eJ9dcClZ80Ihgh0mCe6Ewv)

학교 수업과 교재도 다르고, 순서도 다르지만 미시경제학을 여러 방면에서 이해하고 다시 보는데 많은 도움이 되었습니다!
