_pages/categories/calculus.md, before:

---
title: "Calculus"
permalink: /categories/calculus
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---

# 미적분학 1

- [Limit and Continuity: Problem Solving](https://bluehorn07.github.io/2024/05/01/limit-and-continuity-problem-solving/)
  - 입델 논법이 수립된 과정
  - A Fixed point Theorem
  - Assigning a value to zero power of zero $0^0$
- [Derivatives: Problem Solving](https://bluehorn07.github.io/2024/05/05/derivatives-problem-solving/)
  - 모든 점에서 미분 불가능한 연속 함수
  - The cissoid of Diocles
  - Newton’s Serpentine
- [Application of Derivatives: Problem Solving](https://bluehorn07.github.io/2024/05/20/application-of-derivatives-problem-solving/)
  - Geometric Mean
  - Cauchy's Mean Value Theorem
  - Proof of l’hôpital’s rule
- [Techniques of Integrals: Problem Solving](https://bluehorn07.github.io/2024/05/30/techniques-of-integrals-problem-solving/)
  - Equivalence of the washer and shell methods
- [Taylor Series & Macluarin Series](https://bluehorn07.github.io/2022/10/29/talyor-series-and-maclaurin-series/)


# 미적분학 2

졸업시험을 위해 다시 공부 중입니다...

Commit message:

arc length and line integral

_pages/categories/calculus.md, after:

---
title: "Calculus"
permalink: /categories/calculus
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---

복수전공하고 있는 수학과의 학부 졸업시험을 위해 2024년 5월부터 2024년 7월까지 미적분학 1·2를 다시 공부 했습니다. 다시 공부를 하면서, 교재 연습 문제 중에 재밌었던 문제들과 헷갈리는 개념들을 정리해보았습니다.

# 미적분학 1

- [Limit and Continuity: Problem Solving](/2024/05/01/limit-and-continuity-problem-solving/)
  - 입델 논법이 수립된 과정
  - A Fixed point Theorem
  - Assigning a value to zero power of zero $0^0$
- [Derivatives: Problem Solving](/2024/05/05/derivatives-problem-solving/)
  - 모든 점에서 미분 불가능한 연속 함수
  - The cissoid of Diocles
  - Newton’s Serpentine
- [Application of Derivatives: Problem Solving](/2024/05/20/application-of-derivatives-problem-solving/)
  - Geometric Mean
  - Cauchy's Mean Value Theorem
  - Proof of l’hôpital’s rule
- [Techniques of Integrals: Problem Solving](/2024/05/30/techniques-of-integrals-problem-solving/)
  - Equivalence of the washer and shell methods
- [Taylor Series & Macluarin Series](/2022/10/29/talyor-series-and-maclaurin-series/)
- [급수의 극한을 판정하는 법](/2024/06/08/method-of-determining-the-limit-of-a-series/)
- [교대 급수의 극한을 판정하는 법](/2024/06/08/method-of-determining-the-limit-of-an-alternating-series/)
  - 절대 수렴과 조건부 수렴
  - 리만 재배열 정리
- [Sequence and Series: Problem Solving](/2024/06/08/sequence-and-series-problem-solving/)
  - The zipper theorem
  - A recurive definition of $\pi/2$
  - The Cantor Set
  - The Cauchy condensation test


# 미적분학 2

- [Parametric Equations: Problem Solving](/2024/06/16/parametric-equations-problem-solving/)
  - The witch of Maria Agnesi
  - Hypocycloid
  - Trochoids
  - Limaçon Curve
  - Lissajous Curve
  - Nephroid
  - Strophoid
  - The nephroid of Freeth
- [Arc Length와 Line Integral](/2024/06/30/arc-lenght-and-line-integral/)
